Notes: 

define the execution kernel of a dependency graph as the set of VIS/AR 
edges that are common to all the executions belonging to a given 
consistency model, and have G as a dependency graph. 

My first conjecture is that ensuring that the AR-component in the 
execution kernel of a graph G is both a necessary and sufficient 
condition to ensure that there exists an abstract execution 
X allowed by the consistency model, and such that graphof(X) = G. 
Proving that it is a necessary condition is immediate, since 
AR must always be acyclic in abstract executions. 
Proving that it is sufficient is not trivial. 
By contradiction, suppose that there is a dependency 
graph G for whose AR-execution kernel (relatively to a 
consistency model CM) is acyclic, but there 
is no abstract execution X such that graphof(X) = G and 
X is allowed by CM. Then there is one 
axiom (other than Ext, otherwise G is not well defined) of 
the consistency model that is not satisfied by Ext. This 
axiom must be associated with a consistency guarantee (rho, pi). 
Because the axiom is violated by X, then X is not included in 
the consistency model CM' induced by the simple x-specification 
(rho, pi). This means that there is a cycle in the AR-component 
of the AR-execution kernel of G, relatively to CM'. Note that since 
CM' has fewer consistency guarantees than CM, then CM' admits 
more abstract executions than CM, hence the AR-execution kernel 
of CM' is smaller than the AR-execution kernel of CM. Since 
The AR-execution kernel of CM is acyclic, then so is the 
AR-execution of CM'. But then we get a contradiction.
(Need to check, also this proof may be by reductio ad absurdum).

My second conjecture is that the CAT language is not expressive 
enough to capture the AR-component of an execution kernel, 
relatively to an arbitrary consistency model CM. I have a candidate 
consistency model whose execution kernel appear to have 
an edge which cannot be expressed using Tarski's calculus 
of binary relations, augmented with a fixed point operator.

Proving these two conjectures amounts to establish that 
there are some consistency models that can be specified 
using abstract executions, but not in CAT.

